# Localstorage Database Query Browser #

The query browser widget, that comes with the API, can be used by the developer in his application, where he wants to give the user complete control over the data stored on the client side, or if he wants to test the API or his application.

Some help on using the query browser:

  * The Query browser comes with menus that can be used for starting an operation. A few operations, that don't need any inputs will execute immediately. eg List all object stores.

  * Other operations will probably need 1-3 inputs for their execution. Three text boxes are displayed on the Query browser screen. According to the operation required, 1 to all 3 of the text-boxes will be enabled along with label to indicate what input they exactly need.

  * There is a text area just beneath the menus, which will contain descriptions about the operation to be executed, and how to input the parameters.

  * Last but not the least, there is a huge textarea which will contain the results for the query in simple text format.

  * The default logger that comes with GWT will be used for logging, and will popup automatically. This logger will contain all the error logs that are generated by executing any wrong queries.
> If you want to disable this logger (in case you are handling logs through a different logger or you want to get rid of it for good), then you just need to add this code in your module xml file:

```
<set-property name="gwt.logging.popupHandler" value="DISABLED" />
```


**Note**: The operation 'Remove all keys' basically removes the whole client-side data and can be used as a sort of a reset.